meanwhile Israel has ordered its
residents living within 2 kilometers of
the Lebanese border to evacuate the area
this comes as cross border clashes
intensify at least two people have been
killed in Israel and at least 11 in
Lebanon on Sunday the militant Lebanese
group Hezbollah said it fired missiles
into Israel Israel's military says it
responded with strikes on Southern
Lebanon it also accused Regional power
Iran of ordering the Hezbollah attacks
as tensions increase Israel has boosted
its troops along the border with
Lebanon our Bay rout bureau chief
Muhammad sha joins me now for more uh
Mohammad Hezbollah says it has destroyed
surveillance cameras at several Israeli
Army posts along the Lebanese border
what could that
signal well CLA everything happening on
the Lebanese Israeli borders tells us
that this front is heating up it's clear
that violent events are accelerating the
rounds of skirmishes were intense
yesterday in fact the most intense in
quality and quantity since the crossb
shelling between the Israeli Army in
hasbullah um started nine days ago
having said so hasah destroyed Israeli
surveillance cameras yesterday along the
border with uh the militant group
appears to want to prevent the Israeli
Army from monitoring movements on the
Lebanese side of the Border as military
alertness on both sides of the borders
is at uh the peak with opposing
um Fighters engaging in intermittent
crossb shelling and clashes are ongoing
for the ninth day in a row and give us a
bit of a bigger picture here what why is
it that we are seeing hezbollah's
involvement
here well Hezbollah has been explicit
about his support to Hamas in in this
battle the party officials said since
they won that they are are in direct
contact with leaders of the Palestinian
groups involved in the military
confrontation with Israel and they do
not stand neutral in this confrontation
as they said together hasbullah and
these Palestinian factions receive fund
and support from Iran and they are part
of the so-called resistance access along
with huis in Yemen the popular
mobilization in Iraq and of course the
regime in in Syria altogether they have
long talked about the unification
unification of the fields in in any
upcoming battle and within Lebanon
itself how much support does Hezbollah
have and what political repercussions
could there be if we saw another war
between Hezbollah and
Israel well hasah is undoubtedly the
most powerful political and military
force in in Lebanon it's believed to be
even more powerful than the Lebanese
Army the heavily armed group largely
controls the decision of peace and War
in the country just a few days ago the
caretaker prime minister of Lebanon was
explicit about it in a live interview so
hasbullah is very much aware of the
Dynamics and the consequences of the
large scale war with uh Israel the party
knows how fragile is the situation in uh
Lebanon the political divide is huge the
opposition figures have been uh really
vocal lately about refusing to drag
Lebanon into into a war as the country
is already facing a devastating
financial and economic crisis but will
this prevent hisbah from engaging in in
a large scale war with Israel I would
say only hasah have the answer for this
question at this moment well thank you
so much for bringing us up to date there
that is DW's beay bureau chief Muhammad
Sha